---
title: Insert title here
key: 07638757a1c9f5b135cdc134885d9201

---
## Two Sample t-test

```yaml
type: "TitleSlide"
key: "d68a5e80b5"
```

`@lower_third`

name: Jim Hunter
title: Retrovirology Laboratory, UNIFESP Brazil


`@script`
Let's look at how statistics can help us resolve a simple question. We have a sample of 500 loans granted by the LendingClub. The dataset is one of the open source datasets that come from Kaggle.


---
## The Question

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "9a024e6767"
```

`@part1`
- Do applicants with a bad loan evaluation pay a higher interest rate?


`@script`
The question here is will I pay a higher interest rate for interest rate if my loan grade is below a "C".


---
## The Data

```yaml
type: "FullImageSlide"
key: "5026ba378a"
center_content: false
```

`@part1`
[](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1jKTMCjuYaqD8XOEtr7EVkdKCe891eerDe3_zBA1ATRk/edit#gid=0)


`@script`
Here's our data. I have broken the 500 cases in our sample into "high" and "low" scores. Each case is a loan and our data shows the interest rate on that loan.


---
## Basic Statistics on Interest Rates

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "656fc03da6"
```

`@part1`
[](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1jKTMCjuYaqD8XOEtr7EVkdKCe891eerDe3_zBA1ATRk/edit#gid=1460287097)


`@script`
Our first step in answering this question is to look at the data. What is the mean of interest rates for each type of rating? How many cases fall into each category?
We do this with basic statistics functions. But, first we set up the sheet with names. I have named the set of "High" grade interest rates with the name "High" and the "Low" cases with "Low". Now, let's set up an area with the titles for the counts, etc. as we can see on the slide.


---
## Exploratory Stats

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "10e5d6df71"
```

`@part1`
- Counts: ```COUNT(hi_grade)``` {{1}}
- Mean:   ```AVERAGE(hi_grade)```{{2}}
- Standard Deviation: ```STDEV(hi_grade)``` {{3}}


`@script`
Now we can put formulas in the cells to the right of the names using the field names we created before. It certainly eases the process of writing formulas. No more A1:AA756 that no one can understand.


---
## Exploratory Formulas 

```yaml
type: "FullImageSlide"
key: "c694288970"
```

`@part1`
[](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1jKTMCjuYaqD8XOEtr7EVkdKCe891eerDe3_zBA1ATRk/edit#gid=85551160)


`@script`
The formulas are now in. And we have some results. I've also shown the formulas themselves off to the right of the values to help you with them.


---
## Final Slide

```yaml
type: "FinalSlide"
key: "ff1cd7916b"
```

`@script`


